Copilot REST API blog posts (#13495)
pulumi/docs: content/blog/pulumi-copilot-rest/index.md

---
title: "Announcing the Pulumi Copilot REST API Preview"
date: 2024-12-12T15:15:42-05:00
draft: false
meta_desc: Explore Pulumi Copilot's new REST API preview for IaC.
meta_image: meta.png
authors:
    - artur-laksberg
tags:
    - features
    - ai
    - llm
    - copilot
social:
    twitter:
    linkedin:

# See the blogging docs at https://github.com/pulumi/docs/blob/master/BLOGGING.md
# for details, and please remove these comments before submitting for review.
---

> Since its initial release in June 2024, Pulumi Copilot has seen strong adoption, helping teams understand and manage their cloud infrastructure more effectively. Today, we're excited to announce the availability of the Pulumi Copilot REST API in preview. This release enables developers to integrate Pulumi Copilot's powerful capabilities directly into their own tools, applications, and workplace collaboration platforms. While currently in preview, we plan to quickly move the API to production as we gather feedback from early adopters and ensure it meets our community's needs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We built Pulumi Copilot to automate a broad spectrum of cloud management activities using the power of LLMs. Since its initial release earlier this year, hundreds of customers have used Pulumi Copilot to understand and manage cloud infrastructure more effectively and securely, and it is only getting better by the day.

Today, we're excited to announce the availability of the Pulumi Copilot REST API. This new API exposes the full power of Pulumi Copilot, enabling you to integrate infrastructure AI into your own tools, applications, and platforms. While currently in preview, we are eager to get your feedback to ensure it works for anything you can dream up.

<!--more-->
```

Reviewer 2: Looks good, thanks!

---
title: "Announcing the Pulumi Copilot REST API Preview"
date: 2024-12-12T15:15:42-05:00
draft: false
meta_desc: Explore Pulumi Copilot's new REST API preview for IaC.
meta_image: meta.png
authors:
    - artur-laksberg
tags:
    - features
    - ai
    - llm
    - copilot
social:
    twitter:
    linkedin:

# See the blogging docs at https://github.com/pulumi/docs/blob/master/BLOGGING.md
# for details, and please remove these comments before submitting for review.
---

> Since its initial release in June 2024, Pulumi Copilot has seen strong adoption, helping teams understand and manage their cloud infrastructure more effectively. Today, we're excited to announce the availability of the Pulumi Copilot REST API in preview. This release enables developers to integrate Pulumi Copilot's powerful capabilities directly into their own tools, applications, and workplace collaboration platforms. While currently in preview, we plan to quickly move the API to production as we gather feedback from early adopters and ensure it meets our community's needs.

Reviewer 3: We should not talk about timeframes even in the abstract.  Let's just saw we want to gather feedback and requirements.

```bash
curl -L "$PULUMI_COPILOT_URL" \
-H "Authorization: token $PULUMI_ACCESS_TOKEN" \
-H "Content-Type: application/json" \
-d '{
    "query": "Who are the users in my org?",
    "state": {
        "client": {
            "cloudContext": {
                "orgId": "pulumi",
                "url": "https://app.pulumi.com"
            }
        }
    }
}'
```

### Supporting Multi-turn Conversations

The API supports continuous dialogues, in which participants can refer to information shared earlier in the chat. This is supported through conversation IDs that are received with the response:

```json
"conversationId":"369a280c-63f3-4ee6-a13d-c1035a3d05de"
```

This ID enables follow-up queries that maintain context:

```bash
curl -L "$PULUMI_COPILOT_URL" \
-H "Authorization: token $PULUMI_ACCESS_TOKEN" \
-H "Content-Type: application/json" \
-d '{
    "conversationId":"369a280c-63f3-4ee6-a13d-c1035a3d05de",
    "query": "Who of them are admins?",
    "state": {
        "client": {
            "cloudContext": {
                "orgId": "pulumi",
                "url": "https://app.pulumi.com"
            }
        }
    }
}'
```

## Moving Forward

> As we work towards moving this API to production, your feedback is essential. We are particularly interested in hearing about your implementation experiences, including features that work well, areas that need improvement, or capabilities you'd like to see added. Please submit any feedback by opening an [issue](https://github.com/pulumi/copilot-api-samples/issues) or reaching out to us via our [Community Slack](https://pulumi-community.slack.com/archives/C055KGGFB1N)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
As we continue to evole our AI efforts, your feedback is essential. We are particularly interested in hearing about your implementation experiences, including features that work well, areas that need improvement, or capabilities you'd like to see added. Please submit any feedback by opening an [issue](https://github.com/pulumi/copilot-api-samples/issues) or reaching out to us via our [Community Slack](https://pulumi-community.slack.com/archives/C055KGGFB1N)
```
